I had an idea to
demonstrate speed
control on 3
different routers
but I only have 2 router tables.
So that, of course, means I need
to build another router table.
And I had the idea of using my
slot mortiser as a router table.
A horizontal one by fastening
a piece of wood on here
and just routing
right through that.
I figure I want
to hold the other
table at about
this height here.
I need a fence that goes up
against the other fence.
So I think I want a profile
roughly like this.
It kind of sucks that this piece
of wood has some cracks in it.
But I don't want to
start over again
so I'm just gonna
reinforce that
with some screws.
I thought of
building a
horizontal router
table like this
on here a long time ago,
but I've always worried
what's gonna happen
with the shavings.
because they're just
gonna clog up here.
But the key is to have
dust collection and
this will guide the
air this way and then
this part fits on here.
And then this will
hold the hose.
And then the hose
plugs in right here.
And hopefully that
way, I'll clear
the chips as I'm
making them.
So I just did a whole bunch
of drilling and screwing so
this is screwed
on here and these
parts are all
screwed together.
And the dust hose fits on here.
And I’ve got this
little hook thingy.
So this will slide
along the table.
And I can fasten that
down with a wing nut.
And this part here supports
the front of the table
and it just goes on there
with a pair of C-clamps.
And then the table
screws on top of here.
So, let's see how
this is gonna work.
Well, as best as I can tell
there is no chips
lying in there so I
think it clears the
dust just fine.
Well I think that
was successful.
You could, of course,
also build a
table like this for
a Pantorouter.
But for this
application, the slot
mortiser is the
better machine.